TaikoSongConversionTool/README.md, before:

# Taiko no Tatsujin - Song Conversion Tool 

Python based tool that can convert official songs over to some Taiko no Tatsujin games.  

Supported Titles:  
Nintendo Switch Version / Drum 'n' Fun v1.4.13 (Nintendo Switch)  
Drum Session (Any Update) (PlayStation 4)  
Pop Tap Beat (Any Update) (iOS/MacOS/Apple TV)  

A version of this tool with all song data can be found elsewhere.  
There's 3 options to sort songs by: ID (A-Z), Song Name (A-Z) and Genre  

This is still a work in-progress, so please report any issues found to me, along with suggestions for features or game support.  

Prerequisites:  
Python 3.12.3 or newer  
tkinter installed through pip `pip install tk`  
cryptography installed through pip `pip install cryptography`  
pydub installed through pip `pip install pydub`  
ffplay installed in `path`.  
Song Data properly converted to the format this tool expects, stored in a folder called `data`.  

Due to copyright reasons, etc. no song data will be provided with this tool, however you can use [TjaBatchConvert](https://github.com/cainan-c/TaikoPythonTools/tree/main/TjaBatchConvert)  to convert custom charts to a format this tool expects.  

Currently, due to the nature of this relying on some Windows executables, this tool currently only supports Windows. 
I will be looking into getting it running on Unix-based operating systems. (Linux/macOS)  

# Additional Features  
This tool now supports the ability to load songs from an additional folder. This is designed to allow both Official song data and Custom Song data to be used in-conjunction with eachother.  

![song conversion tool](https://i.imgur.com/TnRlAxR.png)  

## Tools Used
at9tool - Used to convert audio to the Sony AT9 format.  
[VGAudioCli](https://github.com/Thealexbarney/VGAudio) - Used to convert audio to Nintendo IDSP and Nintendo OPUS.   
[G.722.1 Reference Tool](https://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-G.722.1-200505-I/en) - Used to convert audio to Polycom Siren 14   

### Special Thanks
Steam User [descatal](https://steamcommunity.com/id/descatal) for writing [this](https://exvsfbce.home.blog/2020/02/04/guide-to-encoding-bnsf-is14-audio-files-converting-wav-back-to-bnsf-is14/) guide on how to create/encode `bnsf` files.   
[korenkonder](https://github.com/korenkonder) for compiling the G.722.1 tool used in this project.  
[Kamui/despairoharmony](https://github.com/despairoharmony) for some of the Nijiiro `.nus3bank` template research.  

## Related Tools
[tja2fumen](https://github.com/vivaria/tja2fumen)  
[TjaOffsetNeutralise](https://github.com/cainan-c/TaikoPythonTools/tree/main/TjaOffsetNeutralise)  
[TjaBatchConvert](https://github.com/cainan-c/TaikoPythonTools/tree/main/TjaBatchConvert)

Commit message:

Overhaul GUI to support new features

TaikoSongConversionTool/README.md, after:

# Taiko no Tatsujin - Song Conversion Tool 

Python based tool that can convert official songs over to some Taiko no Tatsujin games.  

Supported Titles:  
Nintendo Switch Version / Drum 'n' Fun v1.4.13 (Nintendo Switch)  
Drum Session (Any Update) (PlayStation 4)  
Pop Tap Beat (Any Update) (iOS/MacOS/Apple TV)  

A version of this tool with all song data can be found elsewhere.  

There's 3 options to sort songs by: ID (A-Z), Song Name (A-Z) and Genre   

This is still a work in-progress, so please report any issues found to me, along with suggestions for features or game support.  

Prerequisites:  
Python 3.12.3 or newer  
tkinter installed through pip `pip install tk`  
cryptography installed through pip `pip install cryptography`  
pydub installed through pip `pip install pydub`  
ffplay installed in `path`.  
Song Data properly converted to the format this tool expects, stored in a folder called `data` or `data_custom`.  

Due to copyright reasons, etc. no song data will be provided with this tool, however you can use [TjaBatchConvert](https://github.com/cainan-c/TaikoPythonTools/tree/main/TjaBatchConvert)  to convert custom charts to a format this tool expects.  

### Additional Features  
Multi-Language Support. (Can be set in config.json, supports en(English) and jp(Japanese)).  
Custom Song Data loading through the "data_custom" folder. (Path can be changed in config.json).  

![song conversion tool](https://i.imgur.com/zGr0OTb.png)  

## Tools Used
at9tool - Used to convert audio to the Sony AT9 format.  
[VGAudioCli](https://github.com/Thealexbarney/VGAudio) - Used to convert audio to Nintendo IDSP and Nintendo OPUS.   
[G.722.1 Reference Tool](https://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-G.722.1-200505-I/en) - Used to convert audio to Polycom Siren 14   

### Special Thanks
Steam User [descatal](https://steamcommunity.com/id/descatal) for writing [this](https://exvsfbce.home.blog/2020/02/04/guide-to-encoding-bnsf-is14-audio-files-converting-wav-back-to-bnsf-is14/) guide on how to create/encode `bnsf` files.   
[korenkonder](https://github.com/korenkonder) for compiling the G.722.1 tool used in this project.  
[Kamui/despairoharmony](https://github.com/despairoharmony) for some of the Nijiiro `.nus3bank` template research.  

## Related Tools
[tja2fumen](https://github.com/vivaria/tja2fumen)  
[TjaOffsetNeutralise](https://github.com/cainan-c/TaikoPythonTools/tree/main/TjaOffsetNeutralise)  
[TjaBatchConvert](https://github.com/cainan-c/TaikoPythonTools/tree/main/TjaBatchConvert)
